[Music]
hey everybody welcome to another episode
of impact theory i am here with damon
john what is up man thank you so much
for coming on the show thank you for
having me man
absolutely a pleasure i have to say that
uh in researching you i really resonate
with some of the ideas from the power of
broke to nobody's coming to save you
nobody's going to get you off the couch
that's on you
um where did that mindset develop for
you
you know i um
i've written uh several books and um
i i i'm dyslexic so it's challenging for
me to write write books and i realized
that
the mindset of being able to apply
something is first the negotiation you
have to have with yourself on
why do you deserve it why are you in
your circumstances uh
you know what have you done wrong and
they're not too late to change it or you
know whatever it is i mean mental chains
are the hardest to break
um
so i i get i usually get them all i
compile like the most commonly asked
questions because usually when i write
my book to my ask request i go go read
that book go read tim ferriss book go
read you know whatever the case is but i
realize a lot of people just didn't
mentally think they had the power so i
wrote powershift um because uh like you
said
nobody's gonna come to your house and
take you off the couch i mean especially
today right everybody right now is
scared they're they're excited they're
concerned they're not they're they're
they're they're angry um they're not
thinking of you right now uh they're
thinking about survival mode themselves
so until you understand uh that you are
in charge of uh you know your mental
aptitude in the way that you're going to
handle life and take on the the bumps
and bruises
you know so you understand it's up to
you buck's up to you then you're never
going to get anywhere so
yeah one thing that that i have found um
very difficult to deal with is that it's
really hard if somebody has a mentality
that they somebody has to give them
power or that somebody could even take
power away from them it's hard to get
them
to start taking action that's really
going to help them do you have say magic
words if somebody's listening to this
right now and they want you to be right
do you have sort of that key insight
that helps people see no no i really can
do this
yeah you know um
if they looked at all their successes
where they're happy or where they've
overcome things in life um
they realize they dug deep into
something you know they realize that
they didn't take no for an answer um
if they look at where they are stuck or
challenged they need to reflect and say
at what point in my life did that
that starry-eyed person
where did it go you know and what what
took that away
um
and you'll realize at the end of the day
i mean you know listen if you're
somebody who's that that middle-aged
person who turns back around says you
know
i was al bundy i was the star of the
football team i had that time or
whatever i was that beautiful woman i
was that smart loved my life and now you
know you know something's going wrong
um once you accept that
you'll realize you can get back to where
you were
or that good moment but you just have to
take a hard look
and take inventory you have to write
your obituary down right now and you
want to know you're going to live like
that now
god willing you're still going to be
here tomorrow next year 10 years and 20
years from now but until you create that
change yourself like what do you expect
to get
out of it you're gonna get zero
right and if you're miserable right now
then obviously you have done a lot of
things or made a lot of excuses or had
the wrong influences around you that has
created the environment you're in and
what are you going to do to change it i
mean we're seeing it every day i mean i
think that's why shark tank is such a
great show
you know you're sitting at home and you
know you used to think millionaires and
billionaires are born with money or
everything happening you're seeing moms
and dads and kids and people of all
colors and genders and race and sexual
preference come on there and say no i
was home i had zero and i took this one
sock
and i made two and then i made four and
then guess what
um and i think that's why uh you know it
is so to give you the short answer
it's
taking a hard deep look at your
inventory of you know uh what in life
was your successes what were your
failures and how did you learn from them
taking an inventory of where you want to
go how do you want to be seen
taking inventory of what is your uh
you know your assets right now do you
have a certain amount of time are you
somebody that lights up the room when
you come in do you want to cure
somebody's problem do people love you
you know uh you know are you willing to
work harder than everybody else
uh you know where is the where the
empathy you see in the world is going to
need to be changed so you take inventory
all these and you do some real soul
searching and you're the first step of
uh living a very fruitful life and even
if you don't get to where you want to be
at least you know you left it all on the
damn field
what do you say though to people for
whom the deck really is stacked against
them like they're coming at it from a
place that's harder than somebody else
you know for better or worse i think
we'd all agree for worse that um
the luck
um
who you know all of that stuff is not
evenly distributed right so some people
are they're they're certainly starting
from a deficit um do you give them a
pass or to you is it just sort of the
nature of the beast that you have to
outwork outperform
i'm never going to give them a pass
because um
my father left when i was 10 years old
raised by a single mother i started
working when i was 10 years old i
haven't stopped working ever since i'm
dyslexic
i got left back in school i never went
to college i didn't know anybody with
wealth i grew up in a community that was
riddled with crap
and half of my friends were dead or in
jail by the age of 21. i'm sure that i
have no athletic skill i can't sing and
i can't dance really well
um and i'm black and i've been at uh
i've been at uh
i've been at the barrel of a cop's gun
three separate times when my only crime
was i had t-shirts in my back trunk and
i was reaching for the stars
i'm told i've never been able to do
anything in life and now
i'm a motivational speaker five-time
author best-selling author i've been on
a major network for 12 years i've uh
created a company that has influenced a
good portion of the plan and i've
employed thousands of people and uh and
been able to change people's lives um
you know the reality is i'm never going
to get away from being black short and
and dyslexic that's just what it is uh
so let's get past that i'm not going to
get away from the fact that covet is
here that's just what it is right
um so if i can do it and this is one of
the main reasons that i do write the
books and i put things out because i'm a
prime example of simplicity hard work
and common sense with morals and uh
and being able to embarrass yourself
take affordable steps and learn from
them and you apply that you can you can
do it i do know it's hard and reality is
i've met people that are more successful
me that had it harder than me people
that grew up in countries where they
have to drink out of the same water the
animals drink out of
you know that they've seen tragic tragic
uh things happen on a daily basis you
know so uh you know it's out there but
we have two choices
to sit there and say well with me and
just be another one of the statistics or
if you sit there and give it out give it
our best and learn from people like me
who say my dumbass can make it then you
can you can do it too
dude one thing that really inspired me
in your story is your mom i love the
story of you taking her to the meeting
with samsung
and uh i thought that was brilliant
you're like look my mom's smart why
wouldn't i bring her um what was it that
she like
gave you mentally because it seems like
you're and and maybe you had to overcome
some crazy [__] that was like
problematic from a belief system
standpoint but you seem to have been on
the right beliefs pretty early did she
instill you with stuff that allowed you
to reach for the stars even though you
had what looked like from anybody's
perspective to you know to be a lot of
things that had to be overcome
you know i think the beauty of my mother
is that
um she always tried and she always
educated herself and even though she had
a day job she worked on some kind of
night job or an other way to make money
but the key to her was that she educated
herself and she tried to educate me and
educate me in real life experience she
um
you know
listen we're in a day and age right now
where people are
it's tough right and people are thinking
that
white people
are the oppressor or they have it better
maybe they do maybe they don't black
people are being tortured and there is
no way out maybe maybe that is a
challenge but what my mother did when my
father left
um
she did a couple of things number one
the man who came into my life who i
happened to call my stepfather uh he
dated my mother for about three or four
years happens to be of the jewish faith
he happens to be white
and i learned at that time i educated
myself i learned the people of people
and we have more in common than we have
against each other and his brother
actually was one of the lead attorneys
over here who helped to uh free mandela
uh and
and and i and i realized at that time
you really look back that whether it's
civil rights war by civil war the civil
rights or apartheid
no
no oppressor was never overthrown
without unity of all colors so
number one that opened my mind to a
world of accepting people for people and
vice versa
not being not letting people make me
feel lesser of a person because of my
color i walked into the room as a man
and when i walked in the room with a man
a proud man if you happen not to see my
vision then there's nothing for us to do
but the other side of it is because
we're different
we're going to get innovation because
i'm going to share things with you that
you may not know you're going to share
things with me that we may not know
we're going to make money together so
she educated me in regards to that but
then also
she would send me away to
some place different every summer for
various reasons and
and
she wanted me to get out of the inner
city where my friends were obviously you
know being
having challenges because they didn't
have the right resources around but she
wanted me to see the world so she would
send me to barbados or
toronto or i lived in hawaii for you
know the summer now somebody would sit
there and go oh okay david well
sounds like you had a lot of resources
living in hawaii for the summer no
my mother had a friend that worked on it
that were that was in the navy and that
woman had a son my mother said i will
take your son for the summer you take my
son for the summer and this would be 11.
you can buy a ticket in advance so my
mother would buy a 17 connecting flight
ticket from new york to hawaii three
years earlier
so i will leave in june to get to hawaii
i'll get there in september
but
my mind was open to all these things and
the last thing um my mother did
for me is at an early age she
she made me understand that i'm in
charge of my own destiny and this is the
hardest thing to teach kids because i
have i have the challenge to teach that
to my daughter now and i believe that
if you give somebody everything you make
them the poorest person in the world and
when i was in a school right when my
parents got divorced i thought you know
messing up would get my parents together
because i was in the seventh grade and
and
and i remember the teachers telling my
mother if damon only passed one test one
last test that we know he's rebelling we
will let him go if not he's going to
have to get left back and i went out
that night before the test and i played
as much basketball as i could and rode
my bike and choose bubble gum do
whatever i did
i i get a 30 on the test
my father
goes into the school and the teachers go
we know about the divorce we see what
he's doing we're gonna allow him to move
on from seventh grade to eighth grade
and this was a catholic school at the
time because my mother said she said no
no you're not
you're not going to allow him to move on
because he needs to understand that his
destiny is in his hands and i'm and and
i don't have any money anymore so the
little four thousand dollar of the year
i would pay for a catholic school i
don't have it um and i'm taking damon
out and putting him in public school
well of course during that summer i said
first of all my mother said i'm gonna be
a punishment for the whole summer i'm
not gonna be able to go out but guess
what she has two jobs there's no way in
the world that she's gonna be able to
tell if i'm going out or not and by the
way
that public school she wants to send me
to
they eat their young over there i mean
they are horrible people
my mother wouldn't send her little only
child to that public school
and guess what happened
my mother goes out and gets a third job
so she gets a babysitter to watch me she
whips me the old school way lay down she
took a belt pulled down my pants whipped
my ass and then when i got to school in
september it was not with my cold little
friends i knew for seven years i was in
public school getting my ass whipped and
it's soaked in my rice
nobody's gonna save me
um and so i learned responsibility at
that time and that would that would i
think it would it would follow me for
the rest of my life that the buck stops
with me
dude your mom is legit that gave me the
chills when you were telling that story
um i have i didn't get into quite that
much trouble but i had a similar my mom
was so [__] hardcore she was not for
play and she was just like look if i
have to discipline you till the cows
come home then so be it that's how it's
going to be you're going to be on the
straight and arrow you're going to get
your [__] done and that really did have
an impact on me and so i ended up not
having kids and part of the reason that
i didn't have kids was
two one like you said i think if you
give somebody everything you make them
the poorest person in the world that is
so well put and i've been very
successful and so i was afraid if i if i
say this super super raw i was afraid i
did not have the strength of character
to deny my children something when they
look at you with those big you know
doughy eyes you you recount that story
so powerfully in your new book
powershift where of course we don't know
you're talking about your three-year-old
daughter but you're telling the story of
this like really intense negotiation
and you reveal that it is your daughter
and i thought yeah that that's the
moment where i thought i was going to be
weak so mad props to your mom i think
that is um that is so powerful
and
forcing somebody to see the consequences
of their actions i think is is really
intense now there's a couple ways though
that you could have gone in that and i'm
super curious to know
whether it was something else that she
gave you that that you know brought you
back around i can't do this or something
else but one way is you know
get so angry with her that you just
continue to rebel and not do your thing
and fine you want to send me to this
school then i'm gonna start hanging out
with the bad kids and doing drugs or
whatever um why didn't you why'd you i
mean you end up obviously killing it in
life
i well initially with initially with my
mother well you know listen i had common
sense too i realized that
you know it's got to be a bigger world
out there than the little world that i
knew in hollis queens and
i would hear of people getting beat up
or dying or going to jail and i would
say
i i
i'm just not i couldn't understand
living in a cage for five six seven ten
years and i mean listen when we're
thinking about this quarantine people
can't even
uh they can't they can't stand living in
their home for a month right um so i
realized it was what i didn't want out
of life
i didn't know that i could potentially
become successful and uh and that would
happen later on in life but
i also broke my mother's heart when i
heard her one night i was listening in
her bedroom and she was sobbing uh she
was very
she's a very uh strong woman
and i remember
why she was sobbing it was because
i was not doing the right thing and i
was getting whatever you know bad grades
and i think that i heard her on the
phone and she was saying how much she
was working and why was i doing to this
to her and i think it was my love for
her
that made me want to do this go on the
straight and narrow um so it was two
things it was i didn't want to end up
where i was seeing most people end up
because uh i i just had common sense and
you know being a drug dealer was
short-lived and next thing i was
breaking
uh the heart of the only person in my
life and i just didn't want to do that
and then
and then i i started to to apply myself
in various different ways and i started
to find my meaning in life on what i
want to do how i wanted to challenge
myself and uh how i wanted to create a
difference and and i think that they all
kind of started to flow together you
know but again that didn't happen until
i was like 20 21 22 but you know
that's what kids do we're trying to find
ourselves
yeah for sure speaking of kids man if um
so i know you had a health scare with
thyroid cancer um congratulations by the
way for finding it so early and and
taking aggressive measures um but if it
had gone the other way
and you could only like sort of package
up for your your kids um like three
ideas it doesn't have to be three but
just like a couple core ideas um that
you think maximize their chance for
success like what are those foundational
ideas that have led to your success
yeah
um
it would have been to to constantly keep
moving in different circles and finding
mentors uh and people that
you are are smarter than you or they're
complementary to you they're all
reaching for the stars in a methodical
way that your moral compass understands
so
keep expanding your circle uh
number one why is that important
because it's interesting when you talk
about getting shipped around a lot as a
kid to obviously experience different
things how does that help yeah i think
the world view and i think different
views make you a more well-rounded
person you know um
and i think that having empathy for
other people makes you uh
somebody who people want to be with and
and and you have better answers for
things you know i think that you all see
different races religions or colors of
people and you all start to say
um
it'll broaden your mind it really will
make you want to educate yourself in
different ways and you may find
something that you never would have
thought of you may find a love and a
passion in a different area
that you want to go into um you know
when i was uh when i was coming up there
was uh two companies across colors and
carl can i that were started and um
i remember seeing carl and i on a hang
tag and i remember saying i mean this
just this light went off on my head it
said
wait a minute
i can i can actually make and design my
own clothes because prior to that we had
only seen um people who are flamboyant
european
why you know designer right we never saw
that
so
the the seeing of that person opened me
up to say
maybe i want to try to make my own
clothes and t-shirts
now that's that's point number one
but
also in my travels i met a lot of people
who
were uh
gay
and
i
and white
and brown and whatever the case is and i
and i and they became good friends of
mine
in my neighborhood
and you know listen poogle was very
close to rap and was awful it was about
uh
uh you know a music that
i wanted people to enjoy and i wanted to
dress people for it but it's a very
homophobic culture
and to make a long story short by
opening up my mind to see that picture
of that young man by knowing uh people
who uh have different sexual preferences
but knowing and loving them for who they
were
i didn't mind becoming a designer but
all of my friends thought that i was gay
at the time and they stopped talking to
me but i was i was comfortable with my
sexuality because i knew people who
happened to be gay that were great
people
i was comfortable being able to design
because i saw this thing so it was all
these exposures to things that made me
say i'm going to do this because a lot
of the things that we see people uh you
know that that hinder them is
because they don't think it could be
done because they think people will
laugh at them because uh uh they haven't
seen somebody else do it that looks like
them or who believes in the same thing
they they believe in and i just think
that those are the things that i that's
why i will share with my daughters to go
out and meet as many people in the world
as they can and also to not lock
themselves down until they're 35 years
old or older because
you know for the first 15 years of your
life lock themselves down meaning
marriage marriage yeah because i believe
that for the first 15 years you're
somebody's uh daughter or son right and
if you're going to live to hopefully be
100 years old you know after that you're
going to be somebody's uh husband or
wife then somebody's parent than
somebody's grandparents i want my
daughters uh to
travel the world and know who they are
just for 10 years right from 20 to 30 20
35 whatever case is that other person
you want to get married to if they're
not there then screw them i didn't say
don't have a boyfriend but
don't let them be you for a period of
time know who you are what you truly
want out of life and then last but not
least uh you know i would tell my
daughter to constantly educate
themselves you know so those are the
things that i would uh uh i would push
on them
now i love that man i think those are
amazing things to push on somebody you
mentioned education with your mom as
well and and i wanted to ask you then um
how did she educate herself was it just
buying books library card i'm guessing
this is way before the internet so
um what was she doing to further her
education yeah she would read uh you
know newspapers uh she would go and go
to the library and and
pick up books and stuff and she would
also if there was a way to do it meaning
she read a book or no she wanted to make
a blouse for herself she would then
actually hands-on
try to do it uh she would also teach me
about everything
uh myself because um and she did it you
know being very slick about it she would
say hey damian you know i gotta i gotta
get the food ready then i gotta go to
work so do me a favor can you read me
the the new york times and so i would
stand there next to her for an hour a
day and i would read the new york times
and then she would ask me questions
about it
um and it got me used to reading and i i
gotta say um you know i know that you
know like your interviews we go up on
different topics and stuff like that but
something fascinating happened to me um
yesterday my my friend called me and he
said you know my son who was 12 years
old i bought him something very
expensive and i told him to read that
whole manual that book
you know front page to the last page
and
he was online and he said all his
friends were laughing at them because
kids no longer want to read um that's
crazy they're reading memes or they hit
the top hit on google and they want to
read little things like this um because
there there's too much information out
there whether it's good better and
different they don't have the attention
span anymore because you know our buddy
seth golden will say they're not making
more attention in this world
and the other thing which is not that
important but his son does not not know
how to really write cursive we're going
into a new world where the kids are not
educating themselves in certain ways or
so i think that my mother teaching me
even though dyslexic how to sit down and
have the patience to read something
fully through a full book
is extremely important for parents to
teach their kids today to get that
discipline going early
yeah no question and that whole notion
of education what it is what topics
matter i think is really interesting and
i've heard you answer the question a lot
of times like what would you have done
different you always say financial
literacy you would have gotten that
early what are the topics that you think
like right now if somebody's listening
to this and let's say they're 14 or 15
and you just want to make sure that
they're set up what are the the core
things that they should be educating
themselves on so obviously financial
literacy um what else um i think i think
technology any form of coding in any
form uh uh
so they can write down code they're
online i don't know how to do it myself
but i mean this is where the world is
going to be going um so i think
operating those two things and um
you know not as much as necessarily as
you uh you know as when we grew up but
of course uh
uh health you know um
but you know a young kid at 14 years old
they're not thinking about much you know
they're not thinking about you know
drinking a green drink but you know that
investment pays off and and and so many
more dividends when you're 30 40 50 60
years old
but but fully definitely educating
yourself on some kind of the digital
divide as well obviously is a big
challenge and um financial intelligence
those are the two keys
what do you think so a lot of your
advice i find sort of circles around
leadership you have you have really
counter-intuitive and i would say as a
as an entrepreneur really insightful
notions about
motivating a staff keeping them excited
keeping high
functioning talent around for the long
term so where do you come down on is
leadership something that people can
learn about um if so sort of what are
some key tenants um and then you know
how do you think about um
deciding am am i an entrepreneur am i an
entrepreneur is there anything around
those things people should be getting
clarity on
yeah so the first part about
entrepreneurial and entrepreneur is i
think that all people should think like
entrepreneurs even working within a
system um because then you'll have what
does that mean exactly uh you know that
is um the basics of entrepreneurship is
that you're seeing a problem that
that you figured at first somebody else
is going to solve when you decide that
nobody else is solving it you're going
to take on that problem it is taking
affordable steps um and uh you know so
you can act learn in the repeat um
so i because i've read your stuff i know
what you mean by affordable steps but
give people like a super quick example
from the early days of fubu this is um
your rise is one of the most
instructional educational inspirational
rises of any entrepreneur ever yeah it'd
be great for people to get just a little
taste yeah so you know the theory of me
having a clothing company and going into
stores and
you know there's one way to look at it
um hey i'm gonna have a clothing company
and i'm going to take out a loan and i'm
going to um you know get some samples
and then i'm going to go around the
store or i'm going to market it or i'm
going to go online and i'm going to put
up a store and uh you know and i'm going
to invest in an online site i'm going to
invest in social media maybe i'm going
to do some facebook ads and i'm going to
have a good amount of inventory right
and that wasn't my my unders my way of
doing it not because um that that
couldn't be possible it could be
possible in whatever form back then
meaning i'll get a boutique or i'll get
a kiosk or whatever case is but i didn't
have any money so um taking affordable
theft was something that i was able to
do i was uh able to uh make make to get
forty dollars and make eighty hats and
go on the corner and stand on the corner
and sell them and make eight hundred
dollars and then um you know get a
couple of t-shirts and sell them and it
always went affordable you know boom
boom and then a step back right because
i would but i would be learning during
the course of the process right so i
made the hats made eight hundred dollars
all right so let me go and buy eight
hundred dollars worth of t-shirts at ten
dollars a pop that is 80 t-shirts and
what i'm going to do is i'm going to buy
10 i'm gonna buy eight colors right i'm
gonna buy black blue green
right but because i did that what did i
learn well out of the 80 t-shirts in
fashion
65 of all sales are black 20 20 is white
and uh the other small percent than
anything else so now i got eight heaters
and i sold all the blacks and all the
whites now i'm sitting on top of 60
t-shirts that i can't sell all right so
now i fall back so the next time i then
finally get some money i buy more black
i am why more white right i took an
affordable step well then i realized
that my customer wanted only double a
double xl because at that time double xl
was cool baggy
i didn't if the kid was 95 pounds
holding a brick soaking wet you know
what i did i took a small shirt and i
cut the small out and i put double xl in
the damn shirt so
you know um
i i so that's why affordable steps are
important because you act learn and
repeat and i closed full down three
times from 89 to 92 because i ran out of
capital but i ran out of five hundred
dollars i ran out of a thousand dollars
and the business kept calling me back i
you know people would say i saw the
shirt i love it and i got this euphoria
feeling i said i'm gonna do it again i'm
gonna start off again so when i see
really truly successful entrepreneurs
they failed six or seven or eight times
they started a company they didn't have
all their their legal in place they
closed the company now started it again
they didn't have their accounting they
had illegal but they didn't have
accounting started again legal
accounting they didn't have distribution
started again by the time they get to
their eighth company they're like yo i
got all this [__] worked out but they
took affordable steps
yeah i love that idea of affordable
stuff so i think that's so important
people also should know that
you're when you first really started
getting recognized you were already 10
years in like you said you'd shut it
down almost three times so
getting that this is a long road that
you're going to be going that it better
be something that you're passionate
about i always tell people look the the
success is not guaranteed but the
struggle is so if the struggle is
guaranteed you know the [__] is going to
be hard no matter what you do then it
better be something that you care about
because that's going to be the only
thing that keeps you sane as you're
trying to build this thing yeah that
that makes a lot of sense to me for sure
yeah and as we talk about the leadership
stuff and you know and i love to
simplify it i think that's what makes me
um excited about stuff you know i've
been to many speak engagements and i've
seen a lot of things where people are
you know their phds and they're talking
so so great about the information that's
going over my head
i love to share with people my story and
what i've done
because i shared in simplistic form
because sometimes people can get
intimidated by what they see out there
and people they see out there but my
leadership uh
my leadership theory is that
as a person of color who felt like they
were the glass ceiling in various places
that i made at work um i never wanted
people to feel like there's a glass
ceiling working for me also
that's really interesting can we drill
into that so when you were coming up and
are we talking at red lobster that's the
only place i've heard of i'm sure there
were more in life
in life yeah in life i you know because
when i was coming up how did that
internalize for you were you like man
[__] i just i know i'm not getting
opportunities because i'm black or what
did that what was that no my my
my feeling was um
it'd be hard for me to go after
opportunities because i've never seen
somebody uh on tv that looks like me
that wasn't music related or at par or
or in sports and at that time we didn't
have the internet so we couldn't get to
see amazing business people of color
which there are millions of them and
they're amazing people i would work at
uh i would work as a foot messenger for
a company called first boston that
happens to be a venture capital firm and
when i would have my uh paycheck every
two weeks and i could afford a four
dollar hamburger i would go upstairs to
the corporate uh
dining room and
there were no women and there were no
people of color there so i felt that the
society only rewarded a certain
person or they actually held other
people back
um so as i would grow my career in my um
you know my office
uh my office was united nation i
couldn't care who you were whether it's
your education level or whether it's
your color okay yes i did want you to be
educated if you were my attorney i was
behind the intern for my attorney but
other than that
um i believed also
that i mean the theory of being an
entrepreneur is i'm making ten dollars
right now but i'd rather give you two
and i'd only take eight because
collectively now we're going to make 12
and vice versa but i never believe that
no matter what job you were doing were
you ever beneath anybody else you had to
be able in my company you talked to the
boy or the girl in the mail room the
same way that you talk with respect to
the ceo because somebody's dedicating
themselves to you have no right to say
that you are a better man or woman than
that person because that person has
family that person has love and that
person is a person so i think that that
is where my leadership uh mentality has
come in from and as well as how can i
have people be entrepreneurs in my
company
if they can't if they're not rewarded
for potentially taking
small steps and trying to do things
outside the box as long as it's morally
uh correct with what we're doing and
long nobody else gets hurt uh so i i
have those
that's just been my way of leader
leadership and i'd be very honest i
don't like you know one when my company
was big and we had three or four hundred
people working for us internally and
another couple of thousand externally i
didn't like it um
so i also take my hat off to those who
can move
ten thousand
what was it that you didn't like
you know i felt like at that time you
know listen i i came up you know in the
streets and i wasn't as educated a lot
of times a certain leadership and i
didn't realize for every 50 people you
may need one hr person
so i i had an open door policy and i
felt like i was a shrink you know all
the time and i did want my people to
feel comfortable to come and and be able
to speak to me um but again i also and
that is my leadership way i also have
a massive amount of respect for people
who can who can move 10 000 people in
unison um and and
and and lead lead people so there's
going to be a million different ways to
be a leader
so if you're not looking for education
for most roles i get the thing about you
want your attorney to be really well
educated but if you're not looking at
education you don't give a [__] about
skin color what is it about what is it
you're looking for is it a trait uh
personality type like what what do you
go for yeah so definitely it is a trait
it is a problem-solving trait um
personality-wise is
i have to like you or i feel the team
has to like you because you're not going
to get too much
production out of people that
uh have conflict and or don't want to
work with each other because
whether it's on zoom whether it's an
investment whether i'm employing
somebody you know can i sit next to you
for eight hours a day five days a week
for the next five years of my life um
and if i can and i'm excited about it
and your problem solver well then we're
going to have innovation um we're going
to have uh it's going to be um
uh you know infectious for the rest of
the team and we're going to set a
culture that
that people want to be part of and
you're going to retain more people
because if you have heavy turnover a lot
of work stops number one you may be
creating a competitor of yours because
that person sees where you're doing
wrong and says i can do it better
um you know or a lot of industry secrets
are being let out so i i don't want
heavy turnover i want people we can
trust and just like in any relationship
when a couple of things happen bad
well if you get somebody new you're
going to have your own form of problems
anyway let's
let's realize what happened how can we
learn from it how can we get that out of
the way because no longer will that
happen because we've gotten that out of
the way and you know so that that's
that's how i feel about it
skill set that um
certainly in the new book i mean is
largely about this um that seems pretty
important to your skill set is
negotiating um people see you negotiate
uh episode after episode on the shark
tank so what what are some things you
hope people take away from the book um
what makes for a good negotiator i
thought you've really approached us in a
unique way you were giving advice you
don't usually hear um so i'd love for
you to lay out some of the basics yeah
you know shark tank has spoiled uh
people in regards to how they think the
theory of negotiation goes because again
some of those pictures could be two
hours long but you only see eight
minutes and it's very simple high sharks
and my name and so forth and so on and
within eight minutes you have a deal you
not and it's very very you know boom
boom boom boom boom
right when you know the reality is the
negotiation almost never closes the
first time that you speak to somebody
almost never um and there's three parts
to a negotiation uh number one it is how
do you build influence whether in the
room that minute on zoom or
whether when people do have that first
point of interaction with you um when
they pick up their phone
and look and research you when they look
at your social media uh are you able to
build influence there because they
already were kind of on the fence that's
really interesting so are you saying
that the the things you put out into the
world the content that you create for
your own social media account is a form
of influence even if you're you know
only followed by your friends
yeah very true i mean that is you know
before you know we used to uh you know
get somebody's card or call their
references or you know whatever the case
but we're no longer doing that you know
uh we're meeting people and
we're pulling up who they are
as soon as we leave the elevator you
know so so so
example you know um i was in an elevator
and uh you know somebody is somebody
said to me what damon
it's 90 seconds in an elevator how can i
build influence at that time well you
know you said to me um listen i know you
are never thought out here's what i'm
doing uh you know and uh you know i love
to solve these problems for people and
you know what if you ever want to uh you
know have somebody from your team call
i'm willing to do this for you do that
for you whatever the case is and you
know what either you know i can over
provide for you or um we'll just shake
hands and you know never see each other
again but i appreciate it whatever the
case is i'm gonna leave that elevator
and i'm gonna probably pull you up and
it's the same as kids when kids come
over to my company to work and we look
on their social media you know we look
at what they're saying you know we look
at when they're posting if you if you're
coming over and you're an accountant and
you want to work in my company well you
know if you've got six tick tock videos
that are popping up every single day and
you're not in social media well then
when are you making those videos
you know and you you so and we're
looking at the things are you in do you
love charitable organizations are you uh
you know are you always on there with a
smile hey everybody you know like we're
looking at these things we're human
beings and we're looking at these things
so
you know that's where influence now is
because no matter what somebody's gonna
look at what you're doing they're going
to look you up
no question so there was two parts to
that influence
that side of things is really powerful
and i think people seem willfully blind
or certainly unintentionally blind to
how much they're broadcasting about
themselves then the other part was
them making an offer hey look maybe
never call me whatever maybe it doesn't
work out but here are the things that i
can do for you how do you feel about
people making that pitch
because one thing that drives me crazy i
get people coming up to me all the time
tom just let me know how i can help you
and my thing is don't make me think of
how you can help me like that's the
first thing you can do
so
yeah what what how do you like what way
actually moves you if somebody comes up
and only has 90 seconds to to give you a
reason to go check their instagram
yeah they need to see they need to they
need to feel like they can add value in
a certain way and they need to highlight
their strengths on how they can bring
that to the team and maybe there's
something there maybe not but yes that
happens to me all the time hey man you
know uh let me get a job how can i help
you i don't need that i i don't know if
i had all the answers on how you can
help me you know i'm still not going to
look for you i would have had the end i
would have had the
solution already um so yeah i mean you
know that is that is how the best way
people to pitch people is saying how can
i be of value to you okay well here's
what i do
and i know you're in apparel damon um
you know uh you know i do this or i do
that you know i'm a paper clip expert on
google you know i i can do this on
facebook pages i'm a great editor uh you
know and here's where i can help you
with an apparel i may say my apparel is
covered but i didn't realize that you
can do that you know what i'll give you
a shot at another company that i'm
working on is this within your is this
within your you know skill set and you
need to say yes no or i'm different yeah
that's huge letting somebody know like
even what you do i'm always telling
people look just tell people what you're
up to tell them what your skill set is
when you find somebody that needs that
thing then it can be a tremendous fit
like there's
invariably something that i mean this is
even more true for you because you have
such a portfolio but there are so many
different things i'm looking for in sort
of abstract areas of the business that
if somebody lines up on one of those
abstract things and you tell me in an
elevator or elsewhere it's like oh [__]
okay i actually do really need that
thing
that's super interesting but if you're
just asking me i don't know what you
know so then it becomes this impossible
situation where you're asking me to do
work just to like possibly have
something to do with a random stranger
that i actually have no incentive to
figure out how we can work together so
all right if influence is the the first
of the three parts of your strategy here
with shifting power um what are the
other two well the next one's gonna be
negotiation and i love the old sayings i
mean they're around for for a reason you
know it's not what you accept is what
you negotiate and uh
but people again like shark tank you
know uh
they don't realize that the best part of
negotiation what's in it for the other
person on the other side of the table
because that person has
their own challenges and a lot of people
uh get thrown off a negotiation because
they don't ask the right questions uh
and they may not have the amount of
empathy they need you know if i'm
talking to you and you know you say
empathy empathy yeah uh because remember
everybody is you know you're negotiating
when you're trying to get into the
bathroom before your husband and wife
you're trying to tell your child get on
the school bus and take you to chuck e
cheese on the weekend right uh so
negotiating is something you're doing
all day long um but sometimes people
don't know the right questions to ask
you know i've seen people take things
that i have said and said well you know
he doesn't want to do the deal but
sometimes they don't say what's in your
way how can i make this more attractive
what else can i come back and bring to
you is there any references that you
would like to know because i'm telling
you i've done this several times and and
and by the way even if we do this if you
have a challenge and we i'll find ways
to dissolve it fairly quickly you'll get
your money back whatever the case is but
a lot of people are are so transactional
and they just want to have the
the you know the conversation and and
and that's part of the negotiation
process but however you know most deals
don't happen as i said the first time
you see somebody negotiate but uh you
see somebody or you talk to somebody but
the following part is how do you nurture
that relationship way after the initial
contact point because that person is
either going to recommend you to many
people not recommend you to many people
they may do a deal later on down the
road because you uh you know they felt
that you had empathy they felt that you
knew what you wanted they felt that you
knew your value and your offering and
more importantly you wanted to make sure
that that they were okay and you know
the cost of the barrier entry is nothing
with you or easy um and they can take
affordable steps with you and that is
where you have to nurture those
relationships so you can do 10 deals
after that or you have that person go on
your board or be an ambassador or be a
reference so things of that nature
yeah that that's critical and um so the
the third part there is
um how to how to
because that is really that right the
ongoing deal flow that you get with the
different people if i remember right
from the book yeah so it's three parts
it's how do you build influence
how do you negotiate what's in it for
the person you're negotiating with and
then how do you nurture that
relationship to
to bring more value and get more value
out of that relationship whether the
negotiation has happened or not
yeah damon to me this this is really um
man the the three killer pillars to
not just
shifting power which
in a second you should walk us through
why you called it power shift but isn't
just the key to that which is already
interesting but it is it is how you let
your successes stack and one of the
things that's so intriguing about your
career is that you've been able to
branch out into different areas and
continue to win you know obviously as an
entrepreneur but now as talent as well
as an investor
as a motivational speaker which we
haven't even touched on so it's you've
really gone into all these different
areas but when i think about the three
things that you just outlaid
that is what i i talk a lot about the
physics of something like when you get
to the place where it can't be reduced
anymore and the way that you laid that
out especially nurturing a relationship
because you never know where that is
going to go
having empathy which is interesting i
don't hear a lot of people talk about
that certainly not in the context of
negotiation
it really adds up to something pretty
special which is that it will get better
and better and better for you over time
so even if you sort of lost in one deal
if if you have a good relationship with
them
that is
it's like that loss will pay dividends
and i'm assuming that the loss is just
you left some money on the table out of
empathy or just not being overly
aggressive or whatever the case may be
but now it's like you've got a partner
that you can go back to again in the
future
is that is that sort of one of the core
things that
you teach young entrepreneurs
i do i teach them that they're
they're solving a problem um and they
need to have empathy for everybody on
the other side of the table people want
to always feel like you're in their
corner they want to feel like you
understand their challenges and you
respect and value them if they're
looking at it as you're just a number
and or they're just a number then
they're not going to want to do
necessarily more with you um
that's what i find of course there there
are the exceptions but having empathy is
what i think is the biggest thing that
all people uh should have and i just
think that it makes you a better person
and it makes people feel appreciated
people just want to feel appreciated
so if you're rocking the empathy and
you're really asking yourself like how
do i make this a win for the other
person how do you avoid getting taken
advantage of one the other person might
not be as empathetic as you two they
might just outright be going for the
jugular um and especially if you're new
man there's there's so many creative
ways to negotiate that a lot of people
just don't know don't understand um what
are some principles for how to not be
taken advantage of
yeah well first of all when i'm saying
be empathetic i'm saying that it needs
to be a win-win for both parties but i'm
not saying to be taken advantage of but
i think what you bring up is a really
good point is no way your line is drawn
know what you are willing to deal with
or not go in the room knowing what
you're willing to deal with and stand
firm by it and have no problem telling
somebody where it's at you know um you
know some people are going to go for the
jugular and that's okay maybe they've
been trained like that maybe they're you
know they grew up watching too many uh
wall street movies and that's just what
it is or they're not as mature at that
point in life or just that's what they
do um but you can still have empathy for
somebody going for their jugular too you
have to find empathy for anybody mr
scrooge still has a heart there's
something you know kevin o'leary
has a heart believe it or not um but if
you're empathetic to him saying all
right
are you a vc that basically says you
know what you need to be out of all your
you know you need to have your business
uh open and close your investment in
seven years three years is that what you
need for the projections do you need to
tranche the money in different ways okay
if we do that hard deal of yours i think
i can over provide there's some triggers
that i can get some bonuses because
listen we're going to do it your way
well then how are you going to
incentivize me well dude i love that
you're out there trying to inspire
people and motivate them i think it's
critical and i also think that your
advice is real and it's good and if
people take it their lives will be
better which is the barometer by which i
judge all advice um so man keep doing it
i think it is absolutely fantastic and
you know we're obviously in a super
weird time but your message about no one
is coming to save you but you can do
this um you can make the change you can
learn you can educate yourself uh no
matter how the deck is stacked against
you like you got this um i think it's
phenomenal man and i hope people
continue to flock to you in that message
and uh thanks again for being on the
show oh where can people find you that
is the right question yeah i know thank
you for all you doing look we got to do
this again because the time went by so
quickly because we're having a really
great conversation um of course people
can find me on time yeah people can find
me on social media i'm at the shark
damon my name is spelled damon like
raymond with a d and uh you know what
you can get like my digital curriculums
and all that stuff on you know and some
good nuggets to to to to
really get what you want out of life at
uh nailyourpitch.com
so if you want to nail your pitch go to
nailyourfish.com and get some stuff and
then you can find me fighting with kevin
o'leary every uh you know friday night
so you know so uh all the best man thank
you so much for this time
oh for sure man thank you guys if you
haven't be sure to dive into stuff read
his books they're incredible um and if
you haven't already subscribe and until
next time my friends be legendary take
care you're 20 in your 20s who's gonna
who's going to make it and who's not
so you know you treat everybody properly
and respectfully and you stay in touch
and
very often those relationships merge
their heads years later decades later